---
layout: post
title: Ishmael: de eerste duizend woorden
category: post
---

I lifted the needle from the record, and Dave Brubeck's beautiful tunes stopped at once. I looked him straight in the eyes, the brown eyes that have dragged me into this gorgeous pit of desperation and lust, the brown eyes that have subtly but surely embezzled countless hours of my gaze, the brown eyes that — were it not for the fact that they had to be contained in the skull of one of God's most horrid creatures — I would gladly adore for countless hours to come, the brown eyes that I so often wished I had, looking into the mirror. He smirked, and I couldn't figure out if it was a "oh spare me the long rant and kiss me already" smirk or a "I'm about to reply incredibly sarcastically to whatever it is you're about to say, so don't even bother" smirk. I hated it either way. Without having even spoken a word I could feel tears welling up from something residing so deep inside of me that I couldn't pinpoint its shape (or any features, for that matter). No syllable had flown from beyond my lips and still I felt like I had spoken enough, as if the damage had already been done. *But I hadn't spoken, and I knew I still had to.* I opened my mouth, though it took a few moments for me to find the right word to even start on. In these palpable moments — which, in reality, could not have taken more than a second though they felt like weeks — I could feel the amount of power Ish had on me; in fact, I could feel it to such a degree that it didn't seem impossible that I could actually, physically *touch* that power, or sense it directly. This power was more than a choke hold: if you have enough power, you can wrangle yourself out of a choke hold. I knew that I couldn't escape from this (or maybe I didn't know, but I felt it. Some things cannot be explained by reasoning, and this encumbering sensation would be a prime example), as if he'd placed a curse on me from the moment he asked me for his fucking bus directions.

"You... have killed me, Ishmael. You have."
I couldn't bear any more. I had exhausted my word count for the next few seconds and, in an act of preemptive defeat, dropped my head into my hands. I felt my hair fall against my forearms. The shaky voice hadn't made much impact on the Satan-Ishmael hybrid that was still reclined comfortably in my chaise longue, I reckoned. Tears were now dangerously close to the little exit from which they surface in the corner of my eyes, but in a Blitzkrieg-like attempt to repress them once and for all I threw all my remaining emotional force down my tear ducts. It worked to a certain extent; I knew the tears would be back, but for the time being I had driven them away and I would be able to fight them with more preparation by the time they'd marched back from whatever horrid hellscape I had banished them to. This war on tears had had effects on the home country, though: a little sliver of nausea had managed to sneak its way into my stomach, and my legs didn't feel capable of carrying me. It's one thing to lose support from your lover, but in a way you come to rely on your limbs. The spirit is willing and the flesh weak, but in this case the spirit wasn't at its finest moment either.

Another few seconds passed, the only remaining noise being that of the record player still pointlessly spinning *Time Out*. I tried suppressing the little bout of nausea, mustered up the strength for a couple of words and found them.
"I... you, you've changed me. Into some perverse, conflicted..."
Hadn't mustered up enough words, it seemed. My body kept failing me. My lips couldn't possibly arrange themselves into the right shape for the letter f, nor could my tongue do anything of value. My jaws were left separated. This went accompanied by the Second Infantry Division spearheaded by general Teardrop and colonel Lachrymose making a surprise pincer movement, surrounding my own armies who swiftly capitulated. The war had been lost, then long celebratory parades from the invader sloshed through the streets of my cities. My own people turned against me, rejoicing in the arrival of the Tears; the fuckers couldn't come quickly enough, banners with tear-shaped decorations were draped over town halls. The war truly had been lost. I felt the defeat rolling across my cheeks, down my nose, into my still agape mouth. This defeat tasted salty.

Ishmael, unfazed by all this combat (which in retrospect was probably invisible to him anyway) got up from his comfortable spot and walked towards me. He proceeded to turn towards my desk, stop the turntable, take the record from the platter and put it back in its sleeve with a delicacy I hadn't ever seen out of him before. The guy could break your heart and make you lose all faith in humanity over the course of about eight weeks, but God forbid that your jazz records get harmed. His debilitating capacity for heartlessness was never clearer to me than right then. A loving partner would've tried to comfort me.